PD-686: Developer Mode (#2446)
truenas/documentation: content/SCALE/SCALETutorials/SystemSettings/Advanced/DeveloperMode.md

---
title: "Developer Mode (Unsupported)"
description: "Provides information on the unsupported SCALE developer mode and how to enable it."
weight: 80
alias:
tags:
---

{{< hint type="warning" title="Unsupported Feature" >}}
Developer mode is for developers only.
Users that enable this functionality will not receive support on any issues submitted to iXsystems.

Only enable when you are comfortable with debugging and resolving all issues encountered on the system.
Never enable on a system that has production storage and workloads.
{{< /hint >}}

> TrueNAS is an Open Source Storage appliance, not a standard Linux operating system that allows customization of the Operating System environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TrueNAS is an Open Source Storage appliance, not a standard Linux operating system (OS) that allows customization of the OS environment.
```

> By default, the root/boot filesystem and tools such as `apt` are disabled to prevent accidental misconfigurations that render the system inoperable or put your stored data at risk.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the root/boot filesystem and tools such as `apt` are disabled to prevent accidental misconfiguration that renders the system inoperable or puts stored data at risk.
```

{{< trueimage src="/images/SCALE/CLI/ShellApplianceWarning.png" alt="Example - TrueNAS Appliance Warning" id="Example - TrueNAS Appliance Warning" >}}

> However, as an open-source appliance, there are circumstances when software developers want to create a development environment to install new packages and do engineering or test work before creating patches to the TrueNAS project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, as an open-source appliance, there are circumstances in which software developers want to create a development environment to install new packages and do engineering or test work before creating patches to the TrueNAS project.
```

> This is done by logging in to a system as the root account and running the `install-dev-tools` command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

To enable developer mode, log in to a system as the root account and run the `install-dev-tools` command.
```
